rewrote Markers (#2584)
apache/logging-log4j2: src/site/antora/modules/ROOT/pages/manual/markers.adoc

////
= Markers

Markers allow "tag" log statements with a Marker object, labeling them
as belonging to a specific type. For example, developers can use Markers to tag
log statements related to a particular subsystem or functionality.

By using Markers, it is possible to filter log statements based on the Marker
and display only those log statements that are of interest, such as those
related to XML processing or SQL queries.

Markers offer more fine-grained control over log filtering beyond log levels or package names.

== Creating Markers

To create a Marker, use the MarkerManager class. The MarkerManager class provides 

> a factory method to create a Marker object is used to tag log statements.

Author: One should explain the code before the code appears. I think removing this sentence and just writing "as follows" is not saying what it does

> a factory method to create a Marker object is used to tag log statements.

Reviewer: Okay, can you at least use backticks for the code, i.e., `Marker` and `MarkerManager`?

[source, java]
----
Marker SQL_MARKER = MarkerManager.getMarker("SQL");
----

Since a Marker is reusable across multiple log statements, it makes sense 
to store the Marker in a static final field and make it a constant.
Once done, use it as the first argument in the log statement.

[source, java]
----
logger.debug(SQL_MARKER, "Here is my SQL related message");
----

A complete example is shown below. It creates the Marker as the constant
and then uses it to tag a log statement. The log method works "as usual,"
but the marker needs to be added as the first argument.

[source, java]
----
import org.apache.logging.log4j.Logger;
import org.apache.logging.log4j.LogManager;
import org.apache.logging.log4j.MarkerManager;

public class MyApp {
    private Logger logger = LogManager.getLogger();
    private static final Marker SQL_MARKER = MarkerManager.getMarker("MY_APP_SQL"); <1>

    public void doQuery(String table) {
        // do business logic here        

        logger.debug(SQL_MARKER, "SELECT * FROM {}", table); <2>
    }
}
----
<1> The marker is created and stored as a constant
<2> Using the marker to tag a log statement

> You must create a configuration file to write log statements tagged with the "SQL" marker to the console. 
> This file uses the `<MarkerFilter>` element to accept or deny log statements 
> based on the marker. 

Reviewer: I rewrite the example below, hence truncating this paragraph. (Sorry, I cannot add a comment to this entire block, hence I add comments to each paragraph individually.)

```suggestion
```

The following code shows how the MarkerFilter is used in the configuration file. 
It assumes that the Console appender is defined in the configuration file.

[source, xml]
----
<Logger name="com.example" level="all" additivity="false">
    <AppenderRef ref="Console">
        <Filters>
            <MarkerFilter marker="MY_APP_SQL" onMatch="ACCEPT" onMismatch="DENY"/> <1>
        </Filters>
    </AppenderRef>
</Logger>
----

> <1> The MarkerFilter is used to accept only SQL markers but deny others

Author: It's very distractive and contains a lot of things that are not relevant to this document.
Either we expand on the explanation (it could be a separate thing or a guide) or we link to a complete example in some other code repository. I am in favor too creating an example repository for code like this.

> <1> The MarkerFilter is used to accept only SQL markers but deny others

Reviewer 2: I think that:

* a complete example should be in the `examples` folder,
* the example should be in XML, JSON, YAML and properties (yes, share my pain :wink:),
* only the `Logger` element should be showed in the text,
* I prefer using filters on appender references instead of appenders,
* the composite filter `Filters` plugin is not necessary in this case.

> [source, xml]
> ----
> <Logger name="com.example" level="all" additivity="false">
>     <AppenderRef ref="Console">
>         <Filters>
>             <MarkerFilter marker="MY_APP_SQL" onMatch="ACCEPT" onMismatch="DENY"/> <1>
>         </Filters>
>     </AppenderRef>
> </Logger>
> ----
> <1> The MarkerFilter is used to accept only SQL markers but deny others

Reviewer: I don't know how to _"only show the `Logger` element but also provide a way to obtain the rest of the source code"_ in Antora. Hence, I suggest the following:

```suggestion
Once a log event is tagged with a marker, we can apply specialized configuration on that particular marker.
For instance, we can use a xref:manual/filters.adoc#MarkerFilter[`MarkerFilter`] to redirect log events whose marker matches a certain name to a dedicated appender.
In the example below, all `MY_SQL_APP`-marked log messages from the `com.example` package will be redirected to the `CONSOLE` appender:

[source, xml]
----
<logger name="com.example" level="OFF"><!--1-->
  <AppenderRef ref="CONSOLE">
    <Filters>
      <MarkerFilter marker="MY_APP_SQL" onMatch="ACCEPT" onMismatch="DENY"/><!--2-->
    </Filters>
  </AppenderRef>
</logger>
----
<1> Match all messages from `com.example` package from all levels
<2> Only allow `MY_APP_SQL`-marked messages
```

Note that in the original example `level="all"` was incorrect and XML tags did not comply with our XSD.

> == Parent and child Markers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[#hierarchy]
== Parent and child markers
```

A Marker can have zero or more parent Markers. This allows for a hierarchy of Markers.
To create such a hierarchy, you must use the `setParents` method on the Marker object
after you create the child marker. This method will connect both markers.

[source, java]
----

> Marker SQL_MARKER = MarkerManager.getMarker("MY_APP_SQL"); <1>
> Marker UPDATE_MARKER = MarkerManager.getMarker("MY_APP_SQL_UPDATE").setParents(SQL_MARKER); <2>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Marker SQL_MARKER = MarkerManager.getMarker("MY_APP_SQL"); // <1>
Marker UPDATE_MARKER = MarkerManager.getMarker("MY_APP_SQL_UPDATE").setParents(SQL_MARKER); // <2>
```

----
<1> Creating the parent marker
<2> Creating the child marker and connecting it to the parent marker

The child marker works as expected by adding to the log method as the first argument.

[source, java]
----
logger.debug(UPDATE_MARKER, "UPDATE {} SET {}", table, values);
----

> However, it is now possible to filter for the parent, of more fine-grained, for the child marker.

Reviewer: I think this is what you tried to mean:
```suggestion
It is now possible to either filter for the parent, or, be more specific, and filter only for the child marker.
```

> == Pitfalls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[#pitfalls]
== Pitfalls
```

////
= Markers

> Markers allow "tag" log statements with a `Marker` object, labeling them

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Markers allow "tag" log statements with a
link:../javadoc/log4j-api/org/apache/logging/log4j/Marker.html[`Marker`]
object, labeling them
```

as belonging to a specific type. For example, developers can use markers to tag
log statements related to a particular subsystem or functionality.

By using markers, it is possible to filter log statements based on the `Marker`
and display only those log statements that are of interest, such as those
related to XML processing or SQL queries.

Markers offer more fine-grained control over log filtering beyond log levels or package names.

[#create]
== Creating Markers

To create a Marker, use the MarkerManager class. The MarkerManager class provides 
a factory method to create a Marker object is used to tag log statements.

[source, java]
----

> Marker SQL_MARKER = MarkerManager.getMarker("SQL");

Reviewer 2: I would propose we proceed this way:

* we create a `partials/manual/MarkerExample.java` file with AsciiDoc tag comments.
* we include the file twice in this page (each time using a different tag),
* we create a `attachments/manual/MarkerExample.java` file the just includes the whole partial.
* we add a link to the entire example **instead of** printing the example on this page.

Reviewer 2: Fixed in 13afdaf3d9b18368ddbf363884aff208f1633852

I was not able to make the attachments idea work, but I included links to the Github repo.

////
= Markers

Markers allow "tag" log statements with a
link:../javadoc/log4j-api/org/apache/logging/log4j/Marker.html[`Marker`]
object, labeling them as belonging to a specific type. 
For example, developers can use markers to tag log statements related to a particular subsystem or functionality.

By using markers, it is possible to filter log statements based on the `Marker`
and display only those log statements that are of interest, such as those
related to XML processing or SQL queries.

Markers offer more fine-grained control over log filtering beyond log levels or package names.

[#create]
== Creating Markers

To create a `Marker`, use the `MarkerManager` class as follows:

[source, java]
----
Marker SQL_MARKER = MarkerManager.getMarker("SQL");
----

Since a `Marker` is reusable across multiple log statements, storing it in a `static final` field makes it a constant.
Once created, use it as the first argument in the log statement:

[source, java]
----

> logger.debug(SQL_MARKER, "Here is my SQL related message");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LOGGER.debug(SQL_MARKER, "Here is my SQL related message");
```
